Installing via distribution's package manager
----------------------------------------------

* **Raspbian** since Stretch comes with Thonny preinstalled. On older Raspbians try ``sudo apt-get install python3-thonny``.
* **Ubuntu** since 18.04: ``sudo apt install thonny``
* **Fedora** since 27: ``sudo dnf install thonny``

**NB! We're looking for contributors, who are willing to package Thonny for other distros!**

Installing prebuilt Thonny+Python bundles
-----------------------------------------
The Thonny and Python bundle should work on these Linuxes or newer:

* Mint 13 Maya
* Debian 8 Jessie
* Ubuntu 12.04 precise
* Opensuse 13.1
* Fedora 21
* CentOS 7.1


It may run on other distros/versions, but the requirement is that the distro should be with *glibc-2.15* or newer.

(If you can't install or run the bundled Thonny, then try to `install Python and Thonny separately <SeparateInstall>`_.)


Installing
~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to install the latest bundle with default settings, then execute the following command in the terminal: 

.. sourcecode:: none

    bash <(curl -s https://thonny.org/installer-for-linux)

This script downloads and unpacks the installer suitable for your platform and executes it.

Alternative way for installing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
If you want more control, then you can do the install steps separately.

`Download <https://github.com/thonny/thonny/releases>`_ the file with tar.gz extension. If you have 64-bit Linux, then use file with x86_64 suffix, otherwise use the one with i686 suffix (run ``uname -m`` in the terminal if you are not sure which you have).

Unpack the file and run the installation script. For example, in the Ubuntu command line you could execute the following commands:


.. sourcecode:: none

    > tar -zxvf thonny-1.1.0b7-x86_64.tar.gz
    > cd thonny
    > ./install

This will install Thonny under the *apps* directory in your home directory. If you would like to install to a specific location, then you can specify the parent folder for the Thonny folder eg:

.. sourcecode:: none

    > sudo ./install /opt

Uninstalling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Execute the uninstall command shown by the installer, eg. 

.. sourcecode:: none

    > sudo /opt/thonny/bin/uninstall