Thonny+Python bundle is supported on macOS 10.11 and later (it may also work on 10.9 and 10.10, but this is not tested). On older systems you can `install Python and Thonny separately <SeparateInstall>`_.

(Version 2.1.21 can be used on macOS 10.6 and later)



Installation
-------------------------------------

Download the latest *.pkg file on https://thonny.org/ and follow the instructions.

Uninstallation
---------------
Just Ctrl-click (or right-click) the Thonny icon on your Desktop or Applications folder and select "Move to Bin".

Opening all py files with Thonny
--------------------------------
1. Right-click on a file with the ``.py`` extension.
2. Choose ``Get Info``.
3. Under ``Open with:`` select ``Thonny`` in the drop-down.
4. Click the ``Change All...`` button.
5. Click the ``Continue`` button when it asks ``Are you sure you want to change all similar documents to open with the application “Thonny”?``

Catalina
--------
macOS 10.15 Catalina changed how apps are given permissions for accessing certain folders. If you used Thonny in a previous macOS version and upgraded to Catalina, Thonny may stop working with following message in the shell:

::

    shell-init: error retrieving current directory: getcwd: cannot access parent directories: Operation not permitted
    
    Backend terminated or disconnected. Use 'Stop/Restart' to restart ...

If this happens, then you may be able to fix it by reinstalling Thonny using a .pkg. NB! When Thonny starts up it may ask for permissions to your Desktop, Documents or other special folders you have stored your scripts in -- make sure you grant the permission!

Another solution is making Thonny save a new Python file to (or open a file from) the directory you were using last time before upgrading to Catalina -- usually this is the first directory shown when you open the file selection dialog with "File => Open" or "File => Save as". Restart Thonny after this. Now Thonny should have gained proper permissions for corresponding directory.

If this doesn't help, then you can try `opening Thonny from Terminal <Troubleshooting#open-in-the-terminal-macos>`_ or deleting its configuration file ``~/Library/Thonny/configuration.ini`` (close Thonny first).