*This page describes MicroPython support since Thonny 3.2. See bottom of the page for historical notes.*

Configuration
-------------
Before continuing, make sure that you have your device attached to a USB port. 
If required, install the necessary drivers for serial communication.

In Thonny, open the back-end manager (Tools → Options → Interpreter) and choose 
the type of your device from the drop-down list. If your device doesn't have a 
specific plug-in, then try "MicroPython on generic device".

Now you can specify the port your device is connected to, but if you have only
one board connected, then you could leave this setting for automatic 
detection.

If you press "OK", then after a moment you should see the prompt of your 
device's REPL in Thonny's Shell view.

(If you don't have suitable MicroPython (or CircuitPython) firmware installed 
on your device yet, then see below for the section about firmware installation.) 


Usage
-----
Each time Thonny connects with your device, it first interrupts the current process 
and enters the REPL, which is supposed to work just like Thonny's regular Python REPL.

During writing your scripts, Thonny also offers autocomplete (performed by the 
`jedi <https://jedi.readthedocs.io/>`_ library).
At the moment this is based on the API-s scraped from specific devices with specific
MicroPython / CircuitPython versions (different for each backend type).
This means that if you are using a different version of firmware then the 
autocompleter may offer some names that are not present on your device and miss 
some that are. Most often used names should be correctly offered, though.

This plug-in allows you to run your scripts without storing them to the device 
first. You just save your script to a location on your main computer, hit F5
and the script will be executed on your device.

Once you are happy with your program, you can store it as your device's main script
which is run each time you reset the device. For this you just need to select
*Device → Upload current script as main script* or press *Ctrl-U*. (Note that
with micro:bit and Calliope mini this feature requires that the firmware doesn't have
a main script embedded into it.)

You can list files on the device's filesystem with the magic command ``%lsdevice``.

If you want to test the uploaded main script via Thonny, then select *Device → Soft reboot*
or press Ctrl-D. (This is also the way to enter auto-reload mode with CircuitPython -- 
just follow the Ctrl-D with a Ctrl-C.) 

Even with devices which allow easy saving of scripts to their flash memory, we recommend
keeping the originals of your scripts in your main computer (preferably under version
control) and copy them to the device as required. It's too easy to lose your work if
you rely only on the device's flash memory. Still, Thonny also tries to support
the working mode where you save your scripts to the device directly -- each save is 
performed together with a synchronization command which reduces the possibility of
corrupting your flash memory with an unprepared unplugging or hard reset. 

Firmware installation / upgrade
-------------------------------
Device specific plug-ins in this plug-in line also offer support for uploading or 
updating devices' firmware. Look for suitable commands under the "Device" menu. In some cases the
latest firmware is provided by the plug-in, in other cases the plug-in assists you
in downloading one and in further cases you need to download and point to it yourself.


Thonny REPL vs. plain MicroPython serial REPL
----------------------------------------------
After connecting with your device, Thonny switches it to raw REPL mode and uses this 
mode under the hood to run the scripts, query global variables, etc (don't worry, 
Thonny doesn't make any permanent modifications -- after resetting the device, the
REPL is back in regular mode). For the user it is still presented as regular REPL.

Because of using raw REPL under the hood, Thonny doesn't support Ctrl-A and Ctrl-B
for switching between raw and regular REPL. It also doesn't support Ctrl-E for entering
paste mode -- this is not necessary as you can paste any amount of code into the
regular Thonny REPL.

We hope that most users will find it convenient that upon connecting to a device
Thonny interrupts the currently running program and presents the REPL. Depending on the
device, this may still leave the possibility to inspect the program's global variables
(this doesn't work in CircuitPython, as it clears the variables after interrupt).
But this approach doesn't support connecting to a device to observe its serial output.
Therefore, if you have a MicroPython device running and you want to see its output
without interrupting it, then you should connect to it via another 
program (screen, Putty, mu). If you don't mind restarting the process, then you can still
use Thonny -- just issue *Device → Soft reboot* after connecting. 

Support
-------
At the moment, the plug-ins for specific boards are developed by Thonny's main developers, so you can
use `Thonny's forum <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/thonny>`_ to ask for help.

General bugs and proposals should be registered under 
`Thonny's bug-tracker <https://bitbucket.org/plas/thonny/issues>`_.
Device specific issues should be reported under specific projects' bug-trackers.

Plug-ins
========

General features and extra support to some boards (BBC micro:bit, CircuitPython boards, ESP-8266, ESP-32) are built into main Thonny package. In addition to this, there are some external plug-ins which add code completion for other devices:

* `thonny-pyboard <https://github.com/thonny/thonny-pyboard/>`_
* `thonny-calliope <https://github.com/thonny/thonny-calliope/>`_

As of Thonny 3.2, these plug-ins have not gotten much attention from the developers.

History
======================
* MicroPython support in Thonny started with `BBC micro:bit plug-in by Kauri Raba <https://bitbucket.org/KauriRaba/thonny-microbit/src>`_.
* General MicroPython support appeared in Thonny 3.0 and was meant to be used via separate plug-ins.
* Initially one had to edit scripts as local files and save them to the device with special commands in "Device" menu (as described `here <https://randomnerdtutorials.com/getting-started-thonny-micropython-python-ide-esp32-esp8266/>`_.
* Thonny 3.2 introduced device file browser and allowed to edit files directly in device's file system. "Device" menu was deprecated as file handling commands moved to file browser and firmware commands moved to respective back-end configuration pages. Upload commands are substituted with "File => Save as" and "File => Save copy as" commands.
* Thonny 3.2 also included several plug-ins (microbit, circuitpython, esp) in the main "thonny" package.